---
layout: content

title: Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Disclosure Statement Explanation Of Notes For 2013
desc:
---
When categorizing into groups, percentages are not rounded. If there are no data reported for a particular table, that table will not be reported. The "#" means number of applications or loans as applicable. Tables that report loan pricing information (Table 3-2, all tables in the 11 series, Table 12-2, and Summary Table B) exclude loans with application dates before January 1, 2004, with the exception that the HOEPA loans column or row reflects activity for the full year. On the National Aggregate Reports, tables that show census information (Table 3-1, all tables in the 4, 5, 7 and 8 series, Table 9, all tables in the 11 series, Tables 12-1 and 12-2, and Summary Table A-4) include loans made in rural areas.

<ol>
	<li id="1">All census tract and county definitions and population counts are based on the 2010 census. The census tract median family income percentage is based on the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-year estimates.</li>
	<li id="2">The "invalid geographic identifiers" row contains data when financial institutions have reported state codes, county codes, or census tract numbers that do not conform with 2010 census definitions, or when this information was not reported by the institution. The "invalid MSA/MD numbers" row contains data when financial institutions have reported invalid MSA/MD codes as defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget.</li>
	<li id="3">Includes data on loans in this MSA/MD from institutions with a home or branch office in this MSA/MD, and from certain institutions without such an office.</li>
	<li id="4">In Aggregate Table 1, percentage minority population ("%min pop") means, for a particular census tract, the percentage of persons of minority races and Whites of Hispanic or Latino origin in relation to the census tract’s total population. Percentages are rounded to the nearest full percentage point.</li>
	<li id="5">Applicants are shown in only one race category. For purposes of categorization, the general rule is: the race (including situations where race was reported as not provided or not applicable) of the application is categorized by the race of the first person listed on the application unless the "joint" race definition applies. ("Joint" means one applicant reports a single racial designation of "White" and the other applicant reports one or more minority racial designations.) If the "joint" definition does not apply, the race of the first person on the application is categorized as follows:
		<ul>
			<li>the reported race when a single racial designation is reported; or</li>
			<li>"2 or more minority races" when two or more minority racial designations are reported; or</li>
			<li>the minority race when two racial designations are reported and one is White.</li>
		</ul>
	</li>
	<li id="6">"Not available" includes situations where information was reported as not provided or not applicable. For the income classification, zeros and invalid codes are included.</li>
	<li id="7">Applicants are shown in only one ethnicity category. For purposes of categorization, the general rule is: the ethnicity (including situations where ethnicity was reported as not provided or not applicable) of the application is categorized by the ethnicity of the first person listed on the application unless the "joint" ethnicity definition applies. ("Joint" means one applicant reports ethnicity as Hispanic or Latino and the other applicant reports ethnicity as not Hispanic or Latino.)</li>
	<li id="8">"Minority status" combines information reported on race and ethnicity. "White non-Hispanic" consists of applicants of White race who are not of Hispanic or Latino origin. The "others, including Hispanic" category consists of applicants of minority races or Hispanic or Latino origin.  Applicants not shown are non-Hispanics where race is not available, Whites where ethnicity is not available and those where both race and ethnicity are not available.</li>
	<li id="9">Applicants are categorized by the ratio of their reported income to the median family income of the MSA/MD. The median family income of the MSA/MD is computed by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) using data from the annual American Community Survey.</li>
	<li id="10">The type of census tract is based on demographic information from the 2010 census and the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-year estimates. It is not based on reported applicant characteristics.</li>
	<li id="11">"Minority" means (1) all races other than White and (2) Whites of Hispanic or Latino origin.</li>
	<li id="12">The low-income category consists of census tracts where the median family income is less than 50 percent of the median MSA/MD income, based on the 2006-2010 American Community Survey 5-year estimates. The moderate-income category consists of census tracts where the median family income is at least 50 percent and less than 80 percent of the median MSA/MD income. The middle-income category consists of census tracts where the median family income is at least 80 percent and less than 120 percent of the median MSA/MD income. The upper-income category consists of census tracts where the median family income is 120 percent or more of the median MSA/MD income.</li>
	<li id="13">Excludes census tracts with no reported income.</li>
	<li id="14">"Total" includes all applications or loans, as applicable, for the indicated category, and may not sum from items in the body of the table.</li>
	<li id="15">Includes loans in which the annual percentage rate was below the threshold for reporting, and loans for which no annual percentage rate was available for calculating rate spread because the loan was not subject to Regulation Z. Does not include purchased loans or applications that did not result in originations.</li>
	<li id="16">The annual percentage rate threshold for reporting pricing information is 1.5 percentage points above the applicable average prime offer rate for first-lien loans or 3.5 percentage points above the applicable average prime offer rate for junior-lien loans.</li>
	<li id="17">Loans covered by the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 (HOEPA).</li>
	<li id="18">"Total" includes those cases where gender was reported and where this information was not available.</li>
	<li id="19">Applicants are shown in only one gender category. For purposes of categorization, the general rule is: the gender (including situations where gender was reported as not provided or not applicable) of the application is categorized by the gender of the first person listed on the application unless the "joint" gender definition applies. ("Joint" means one applicant reports gender as male and the other applicant reports gender as female.)</li>
	<li id="20">"Applications received" equals the total number of loans originated, applications approved but not accepted, applications denied, applications withdrawn, and files closed for incompleteness; excludes loans purchased, preapproval requests denied, and preapproval requests approved but not accepted.</li>
	<li id="21">Includes census tracts with no reported income.</li>
	<li id="22">Institutions are not required to report reasons for loan denials. "Total" includes cases where multiple reasons were reported.</li>
	<li id="23">Census tracts are grouped according to median age. Because the census data on housing stock age are categorized in intervals of several years, the median housing stock age for a census tract is determined by calculating the mid-point of the interval in which the median unit falls. The tracts are grouped in this table by the time period in which the median unit was built. Census tracts where the median age is unknown are grouped in the "age unknown" category.</li>
	<li id="24">For MSA/MDs with more than one principal city, all principal cities are included.</li>
	<li id="25">"MSA/MD less principal city" includes all census tracts outside the principal city (or cities) but within the MSA/MD.</li>
	<li id="26">The "tract unknown" row contains data when financial institutions reported tract numbers that do not conform with 2010 census definitions, or when financial institutions did not report this information.</li>
	<li id="27">The "county unknown" row contains data when financial institutions reported state and county code combinations that do not conform with 2010 census definitions, or when financial institutions did not report the county.</li>
	<li id="28">"Total applications" equals the total number of loans originated, applications approved but not accepted, applications denied, applications withdrawn, and files closed for incompleteness; excludes loans purchased, preapproval requests denied and preapproval requests approved but not accepted. However, for summary tables at the institution-wide level, "total applications" also includes preapproval requests denied and preapproval requests approved but not accepted.</li>
	<li id="29">Reporting preapprovals approved but not accepted is optional; therefore, the numbers in this category may not be consistently reported across institutions.</li>
	<li id="30">For each loan category, the dollar weighted mean spread is calculated by multiplying each loan with a reported price spread times the dollar amount of the loan and dividing the sum of these dollar weighted loan prices by the total dollar amount of loans in the product category.</li>
	<li id="31">For each loan category, the dollar weighted median spread is calculated for each loan with a reported price spread by weighting each loan as represented by its rate spread using the dollar size of the loan amount. Then find the rate spread of the loan at the midpoint of this distribution of loan dollars.</li>
</ol>